adding null_value mapping parameter docs (#9568)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/mapping-parameters/null-value.md

---
layout: default
title: Null value
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 130
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Null value

> The `null_value` mapping parameter allows you to replace explicit `null` values with a predefined substitute during indexing. By default, if a field is set to `null`, it is not indexed and cannot be searched. With `null_value` defined, the specified replacement value is indexed instead, making it possible to query or aggregate on documents where a field was originally `null`, however, it does not modify the `_source` of the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `null_value` mapping parameter allows you to replace explicit `null` values with a predefined substitute during indexing. By default, if a field is set to `null`, it is not indexed and cannot be searched. With `null_value` defined, the specified replacement value is indexed instead. This allows you to query or aggregate documents in which a field was originally `null` without modifying the document `_source`.
```

> The `null_value` must be of the same type as the field it is applied to. For instance, a `date` field cannot use a `boolean` such as `true` as its `null_value`. It must be a valid date string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `null_value` must be of the same type as the field it is applied to. For instance, a `date` field cannot use a `boolean` such as `true` as its `null_value`; the `null_value` must be a valid date string.
```

{: .important}

## Setting a null_value on a field

> The following request creates an index named `products` where the `category` field is of type `keyword` and replaces `null` values with `"unknown"` during indexing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following request creates an index named `products`. The `category` field is of type `keyword` and replaces `null` values with `"unknown"` during indexing:
```

```json
PUT /products
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "category": {
        "type": "keyword",
        "null_value": "unknown"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Indexing a document with a null value

> Use the following command to index a document that has null for category:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to index a document, in which the `category` field is set to `null`:
```

> Use the following command to index a document, in which the `category` field is set to `null`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the following command to index a document in which the `category` field is set to `null`:
```

```json
PUT /products/_doc/1
{
  "category": null
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Querying the null substitute

> Use the following command to search for documents where category was previously `null`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to search for documents in which category was previously `null`:
```

> Use the following command to search for documents in which category was previously `null`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the following command to search for documents in which the `category` field was previously `null`:
```

```json
POST /products/_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "category": "unknown"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Expected result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains the matching document:
```

```json
{
  ...
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 0.2876821,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "products",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 0.2876821,
        "_source": {
          "category": null
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> ## Aggregating on null substitute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Aggregating on a null substitute
```

> Since the null replacement is indexed, it also appears in aggregations. Use the following command to perform a `terms` aggregation on the `category` field:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the null replacement is indexed, it also appears in aggregations. Use the following command to perform a `terms` aggregation on the `category` field:
```

```json
POST /products/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "category_count": {
      "terms": {
        "field": "category"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Expected result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains aggregated results:
```
